# Horse-wiki
 Can Horses Do?

Your horse can do so many things! 
They can pull wagons, pull plows and so much more! 

What Speeds Can a Horse Go?

English horse gait- If your 
riding english your horse can
walk (5.0 mph) trot (8.1 mph)
canter (16.8 mph) gallop 
(25-30 mph)
Western horse gait- If your 
riding western your horse can 
walk (5.0 mph) trot (8.1 mph) 
lope (8-12 mph) canter (16.8) 
gallop (25-30)

How Many Breeds Of Horses Are Their?

There is over 600 breeds of 
horses in the world

Fun Facts About Horses

(1) Horses sleep standing up

(2) Horses can't burp

(3) You can estimate a horse's 
age by its teeth

(4) Horses can live to be more 
than 30 years old

(5) The American Quarter Horse 
is the worlds most popular 
breed

(6) (Most) Arabin horses have 
one less vertebrae then other 
breeds

(7) Horses are herbivores

(8) Horses are herd animals

(9) Horses were domesticated 
by humans more than 3,000 
years ago

(10) Horses are measured in 
"Hands"

(11) Most white horses are 
actually gray

(12) A horse's resting 
respiratory rate is about 8-14 
breaths per minute

(13) Horses are not native to 
North America
(14) A baby horse is called a 
foal

(15) The original "Horse" was 
the size of a Golden Retriever

(16) A female foal is called a 
filly

(17) A male foal is called a 
colt